Science and Information Theory

Brillouin, L.

  A new scientific theory has been born during the last few years, the theory
of information.  It immediately attracted a great deal of interest and has
expanded very rapidly.  This new theory was initially the result of a very
practical and utilitarian discussion of certain basic problems:  How is it
possible to define the quantity of information contained in a message or 
telegram to be transmitted?  How does one measure the amount of information
communicated by a system of telegraphic signals?  How does one compare these
two qualities and discuss the efficiency for coding devices?  All of these
problems, and many similar ones, are of concern to the telecommunication
engineer and can now be discussed quantitatively.
  From these discussions there emerged a new theory of both mathematical
and practical character.  This theory is based on probability considerations.
Once stated in a precise way, it can be used for many fundamental scientific
discussions.  It enables one to solve the problem of Maxwell's demon and to
show a very direct connection between information and entropy.  The 
thermodynamic entropy measures the lack of information about a certain
physical system.  Whenever an experiment is performed in the laboratory,
it is paid for by an increase of entropy, and a generalized Carnot Principle
states that the price paid in increase of entropy must always be larger than
the amount of information gained.  Information corresponds to negative
entropy, a quantity for which the author coined the word negentropy.  The
generalized Carnot Principle may also be called the negentropy principle of
information.  This principle imposes a new limitation on physical experiments
and is independent of the well-known uncertainty relations of quantum mechanics.
